# Host Checklist

## Two Weeks Before

* determine budget
* rent chairs / any other equipment
* book interpreter if necessary - talk to Cole about volunteers from Douglas College
* inform Mobify Ops of event date so they can put it in the Mobify Events calendar

## One Week Before

* Prep background slide with logo and hashtag, wifi details - Download MC Slides Template
* Email speakers to remind them they agreed to speak, ask if there's anything they need. Here's a template you can use:
 
> "We're one week out from the next Style & Class, and I for one am really excited to come hear your tips for (insert topic here).
>
> I wanted to check in and see if you have any requests or anything you'll need next week when giving your talk? We're assuming you'll bring your own laptop and have a video out cable that can connect to the projector, but we'll try to have a few adapters on hand just in case. Otherwise we'll have all the standard AV stuff, so if you need any extra gear or support now would be a great time to let me know about it.
>
> And if you have any other questions, let me know. See you next Tuesday!"

## Day Before

* Send out reminder email to meetup group - refer to this template
* Remind attendees to change RSVP to NO to open up waiting list spots
* Contact Joe Palmer at CRAFT to reserve a few tables for apres - https://twitter.com/JoeAtCBM – or not, we don't like CRAFT anymore. Let's use Tap & Barrel, contact is village@tapandbarrel.com

## Day Of Prep

* You'll probably find the checklists handy: Checklists - Supplies and MC Responsibilities
* Send out one last tweet reminding people to RSVP if they're not coming and free up spots
* Print out name tags generated by meetup.com noon or so. You may need to make an emergency trip to Staples to get more nametag templates.
	* Speakers may not have RSVPed for the event, you may need to print name tags for them
* Get beer and non-alcoholic refreshments, see our beer guide for specifics
* Get ice for the beer
* Setup both recycling and general waste bins
* Put out name tags, sharpies

## During the Event

* Greet speakers when they arrive
* Test A/V setup
	* Do they need audio?
	* Do they need adapters?
	* Do they have a backup plan if their clicker / phone shuts down halfway through? Make sure presenter notes are on their display, and their presentation isn't mirrored
* Tell each speaker when they're on, and tell them how Q&A will work

## MC Notes

* Make sure to introduce the concept of Style & Class. Here's a template:

> Style & Class is a community for those who design and build the front end of the web. We think there's a blurry line between designers and developers, with facets of both skills often existing in the same person. We want to create events that cater to that middle ground, presenting diverse topics that foster creativity, best practices, and process improvements. We expect to cover a wide range of topics, from multi-device web design, content strategy, CSS and Javascript techniques, user interfaces and experiences, to just about anything else you might find in the latest A Book Apart.

* Announce event hashtag #styleclass, wifi
* Mention bathroom locations
* Set expectations about the format for the event
* Thank sponsors

* Introduce each speaker
* Host follow-up Q&A
	* Ask speakers to repeat each question

### Wrap Up

* Thank sponsors again, mention they're hiring
* Who else is hiring? 
	* Have them raise their hands
 	* Ask for company names
 	* tell anyone looking for work to go talk to them
 	* let's also mention http://heyavailable.com/ as a way of continuing that conversation
* Announce next event if possible
	* open mic for other event announcements
* ask for help with cleaning up
* tell everyone when we need to clear out of the space
* announce after-party plans, if any
* Clean up duties, see if anyone left anything behind, make sure to post to Meetup if so

## After the Event

* Calculate attendance
	* use unused nametags to change attendance on meetup.com
	* people that changed RSVP last night - leave as is
	* for people that left RSVP to yes and didn't arrive - set as "no-show"
	* attendance numbers will change to reflect
* Calculate beer leftovers
* upload pictures to flickr?
* get slides from speakers, have them posted to Meetup

## Keep an eye on...

* At the start, have a plan for quieting everyone down to kick things off
* Make sure random people aren't wandering around the venue
* Know where your speakers are at time-wise, and have a system for letting them know they're taking too long